Hello everyone and welcome to the K means clustering project solutions lecture in this lecture video
we're going to go ahead and start working through the solutions for the Kamins clustering project.
Let's go ahead and jump to our studio to get started.
All right here we are our studio.
Remember that before we begin this project you need to have the C S V files.
You can either download them using the link in the notebook or you can just download the CATV files
are included in the notes download.
Let's go ahead and continue by reading the CXXVI for this data.
I'm going to make two data frames.
If one reads CSFB and I want one quality read it for the first one and something else to know is that
the separator for this is a semi-colon.
And then for DFI to I'm going to go ahead and say read C S V y quality.
This is going to be the white wine and the separator here is going to be equal to the semi colon as
well.
Once we have those data frames Let's go ahead and just run the source here and print out the head of
one of those data frames just call ahead if one if you look at the state of frame you'll notice you
get a quality column alcohol sulfates chlorides etc. but we don't have as an actual label and that's
because it assumes that you already know all the label for the y data.
Here is Redwine versus the two.
They're all white wine because we don't have a red or white wine label.
We're gonna go ahead and do is apply a label to these data frames.
We're going to show you how to do that.
You can say if one had a label call and then just say supply the IF one and you can go ahead of any
column in here.
Ph is fine.
And we can just as a simple anonymous function say X and then pass in the if one is red.
So I'm just going to go ahead and return red.
And basically what this is doing is it just says for every single row in the PH column return red and
assigned that to the label column which makes sense because now if I print the head of the one all the
labels for this entire data frame are red which makes sense because everyone in here is red.
We're going to do the exact same thing for DNA too.
Except I'm going to change it to white and I'm going to make sure to say too.
All right.
No that's fixed.
Let's go ahead and combine the if one of these two into a single data frame called wine.
And I can do that when we go in and clear the consul with the R bind function that's going to say our
bind for row binds and I'm going to pass and the one and the two.
And now we have the wine which is we can see if in a global environment the addition of DFA one of the
two.
And luckily it also has labels now that we have all our data set up.
Let's go ahead and move on to exploratory data analysis.
In this phase we're just going to draw a couple of histograms and scatter plots to get a better idea
of what our data actually looks like.
Now go ahead and start by calling the G-G plot library and then the first thing we asked you to do is
to create a histogram of residual sugar from the wind data.
And I wanted to color bright red and white wines.
I don't know you wouldn't say P.L. pasand G-G plot that's in the newly created wine which has all my
wines both red and white and I want a histogram which means I only need the next and I want to do the
residual column
all the residual sugar feature and I want this to be a histogram.
So going to say GM histogram and going to add some additional arguments here because I want the actual
fill color to be by my label column that I just made.
And then as you probably know by now I always like having the calorie black for the outline.
Now let's go ahead and indicate we want 50 bins that are P.L..
What I'm going to go ahead and do is add a little bit to the people.
This was optional you actually have to do this but I wanted to change the colors by using a scale fill
manual.
And the reason I wanted to change the colors was because I want to colors that just reflects the red
and white wine colors.
So I decided to go to the Hexe picker com Web site where you could pick out hecks colors and then I
chose one cream and one red for the red and white values.
Then I'm going to go ahead and say plus theme.
BW Let's go ahead and answer that and then we see here we click zoom the actual histogram and notice
now the labels are very nicely visualized because the red corresponds to red wine and the white correspond
the white wine.
That's also why it's nice to have the actual black outline.
All right so it can we actually tell here.
Well it looks to me that the Red Wine tends to be have I have a lower residual sugar count.
And after a certain point there are basically no red wines that have anything higher than like 10 or
whatever that residual sugar metric is.
Now you should also keep in mind that this may also be occurring because there's a lot less samples
of red wine than white wine.
Notice we only have about 6500 red wine samples and almost 5000 white wine samples.
So that may skew our data a little bit and most likely what's going to happen is it's going to be hard
to detect red wines if there's not any particular feature that makes them very separable.
Let's go ahead and do another histogram by the citric acid column or feature in a go ahead and clear
the console up on my arrow key to see the last P.L. command but in this case I'm just going to change
residual sugar to citric acid.
That's all going to stay the same.
And then I'm going to call the same command here and that will get him a histogram out.
Again you can always reference the notes in case you need any of this code.
All right looking at this histogram it doesn't tell us too much.
Maybe that there's a higher concentration in the 0.2 5 range for citric acid of white wine but this
is probably just due to the fact that there's more white wine counts than red wine counts.
Other than that it looks like the peak is a little hard to tell whether or not that's actually a strong
feature of white versus red wine.
Let's continue with one last histogram of the alcohol.
This is going to be the actual alcohol level.
I'm going to again just press up on my arrow keys.
This is basically the exact same plot and just changing the x axis.
I'm going to make my history and by alcohol and then call with my custom colors in my custom theme.
All right it's good.
Click zoom here and here again.
Now we have alcohol versus counts the percent of the alcohol and there's really nothing that we can
truly tell here as far as distinguishing between red and white wine.
Somebody that's really interesting to know is that this Instagram.
It almost seems like it goes up and then down up down up down up down.
And that's probably because as far as labeling percentages on wine it's usually some sort of whole number
or a point five number.
And that means values in-between such as point seven five point two five are probably not there because
usually when you read a bottle of wine or any bottle of alcohol the percentage of the alcohol is going
to be in point five units or just in a whole number of units.
That's where you might see this up down in the histogram.
Now let's go ahead and move on to a scatterplot.
I'm going to go ahead and clear the cons. And I'm going to start by calling Gigi plots on my wind data
set in the aesthetic glare.
I'm going to say X is citric acid and we want to do Sitrick sugur residual sugar versus citric acid
.
That means y is going to be the residual sugar
then I'm going to go ahead and say plus geometer score points and I want to go ahead and color this
by the label column.
I'll go ahead and also say that equals zero point two.
And then finally after that I'm going to go ahead and say P.L. Plus the scale color manual pass in those
custom values again looks go ahead to make that a vector by using the combined function.
And then I'm going to call a theme but in this case I'm actually going to call a theme dark because
I notice these cream or white points were a little hard to tell against a completely white or gray background
.
That's why I chose a dark theme for this.
All right.
Let's take a look at this plot.
This is our scatterplot.
It looks like we just have one outlier over near like the 60 level of residual sugar.
You may want to drop that out or relabel your axes on the Y scale to actually just go to a forty's so
that we can see the data a little better.
As far as what we can tell here this is going to be pretty hard to distinguish based off of just citric
acid level the red or white wine label.
And that basically means our clustering algorithm is probably going to have a hard time clustering wines
around here just because there's so much overlap and so much noise.
Let's go ahead and get another picture by creating a scatterplot of the acidity versus the residual
sugar.
To go ahead and clear this.
It's called G-G plots in English going to change my X to be the volatile acidity
versus residual sugar we'll leave everything else the same and I'm going to go ahead and call the scale
Klare manual and then theme dark Let's go ahead and plot that out and zoom in on it.
All right looking at this we may have a distinguishing feature here.
It looks like there's not too many white wines that have in a city the level of above zero point four
that might help or clustering Alvah algorithm cluster red wines and separate them from white wines.
It looks like there is some noise here.
However Billos are 0.4 again is probably going to be hard to distinguish between the red and white for
classing algorithm that also maybe just because there's wine such as rosé or some sort of mix between
a red and white color and the clustering algorithm based off the features will have a hard time telling
it because they kind of belong to both classes.
Now if you were in the wine business or had domain knowledge on wine that means you would probably choose
k equal to three maybe red white and rosé that might be interesting to explore as we continue on the
project.
Let's go ahead and continue this Baxi beginning to build everything we need for the model.
We're going to push this over to the right.
Remember that k means algorithm is an unsupervised algorithm meaning it doesn't take in any labels it
tries to discover the labels for you in a sense which means the cluster data that we're going to feed
the Kamins algorithm is just going to be columns 1 through 12 there's 13 columns if we have that label
column I'm going to just pass columns 1 through 12 the actual features.
Let's go ahead and make sure that this was correct.
It looks like we're good.
We cut it off at the quality There's no label column here that all works out.
Now we're going to go ahead and do is build the clusters going to make an object called Wine cluster
called the Kamins function
and then just pass in the features.
And in this case I can just pass in that clus data object we just made.
So we'd have to actually call wine there and just say clus data.
That's all the features and I'm going to set the center's argument which is the K argument.
How many actual groupings we want to be too.
And then I can go ahead and just say print's wine cluster and you notice there's a lot of stuff we can
call off of this but I'm just going to call the cluster centers and this will show us the center values
for each feature for each cluster.
This is a little hard to interpret directly because as multi-dimensional data.
But essentially you can think if you are plotting fixed assiduity versus volatile acidity this would
be the center coordinate for the group 1.
And this would be the center coordinate for group 2.
But you should know since we're dealing with multidimensional data it's going to be pretty hard to make
some sort of visualization that shows 12 degrees of data.
Let's go ahead and attempt to evaluate how well our model actually performs.
Again I can't stress this enough that with unsupervised learning you're probably not going to have the
luxury of knowing the label of your data beforehand.
Otherwise what would be the point of using an unsupervised learning algorithm.
But in this case we're doing this that where we can get a little more learning and squeeze a little
more learning out of this Kamins algorithm lecture.
We'll use the table command to actually say wine label and then call wine cluster and then call the
cluster object out of that wine cluster list and see the clusters themselves looking at this table we
can almost treat it like a confusion matrix.
Others just keep in mind we weren't doing classification we were just doing an unsupervised clustering
algorithm.
All right.
And looking at these results that we are lucky to have the labels for we can see that red is seems to
be easier to cluster together due to its features which makes a little sense given our previous visual
ization.
There were definitely some features where Red was kind of it pushed aside from white either in the histograms
or in the actual scatter plots.
There seems to be a lot of noise with white wines.
And like I mentioned before this could possibly do to rosé wines being categorized as white wine or
really not sure because we didn't have those labels or any pictures of the wine to begin with and these
rosé wines may still have the qualities of a red wine and maybe accidentally label do some noise between
the features.
Overall this makes sense since wine is essentially just fermented great juice and we're just using chemical
measurements and that may not actually provide any good correlations between whether the wine is fully
red or fully white.
And it's important to note here that came in Tammy's algorithm can only give you the clusters it cannot
directly tell you what the labels should be or even how many clusters you should have.
We're just lucky because we know that we expect two types of wine in this particular case.
However this is where a domain knowledge would really come into play.
That means if you're a wine expert or you knew where the data came from and you could talk to people
ask them questions such as Do you expect just red and white wine or does BET expect red white and rosé
etc. then you could actually begin to interpret the clusters in a much better fashion.
And then you'd be able to actually use the information such as the centers of the clusters to perform
some sort of business decisions as far as classifying right and why.
Maybe what customers like and acidity levels et cetera.
OK.
I hope you enjoyed this project should have been pretty straightforward.
The only thing that I really want to make sure you understand is how to called Kamins function in order
to create clusters and then also understand this is an unsupervised learning algorithm meaning you feed
it unlabeled data and it attempts to group that and data into similar groups.
All right thanks so much everyone and I'll see you at the next lecture